For this exercise, you are asked to review
the NIST 800-41 revision 1 standard and provide five key considerations.
Let's see how you did. Here are several considerations I
came up with, stateful versus stateless.
A stateful firewall provides additional protection as opposed to a stateless firewall.
If possible, purchase a firewall that contains deep packet inspection.
This will allow the traffic to be analyzed deeper than simply ports.
If also using a firewall as a VPN,
a firewall with NAC,
that's Network Access Control can inspect
incoming traffic for things such as updated anti-virus,
time since last scan, and other configurations.
UTM, Unified Threat Management is where
the firewall can dynamically detect suspicious probes and malware,
proxy services for Internet browsing,
additional security by implementing NAT,
which is Network Address Translation.
The outside world does not communicate with internal IP addresses.
It's fine if your list doesn't match this one.
The key takeaway is to use the wealth of recommendations in these NIST standards.